docs: add KLT components diagram (#1016)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/en/docs/concepts/architecture/components/KLTcomponents.md

---
title: Lifecycle Toolkit Components
linktitle: KLT Components
description: Basic understanding of Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit Components
weight: 80
cascade:
---

### Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit Components

The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit consists of two main components:

* Keptn Lifecycle Operator, splits into two separate operators:
  * Lifecycle-Operator
  * Metrics-Operator
* Keptn Lifecycle Scheduler

```mermaid
graph TD;
    KLTComponents-->Operators;
    KLTComponents-->Scheduler
   Operators-->Lifecycle-Operator
   Operators-->Metrics-Operator

style KLTComponents fill:#006bb8,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#fff
style Operators fill:#d8e6f4,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#006bb8
style Scheduler fill:#d8e6f4,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#006bb8
style Lifecycle-Operator fill:#d8e6f4,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#006bb8
style Metrics-Operator fill:#d8e6f4,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#006bb8

```

> **Keptn's Lifecycle Operator** is a Kubernetes operator that automates the deployment and management of Keptn's Lifecycle Controller components in a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Keptn's Lifecycle Operator** is
a Kubernetes [operator](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/)
that automates the deployment and management
of Keptn's Lifecycle Controller components in a Kubernetes cluster.
```
The markdown-linter is going to fail lines that are longer than 145 characters, I think -- I'm not sure why it wasn't run as part of the CI for this PR but it will get you eventually so let's shorten the line.

And let's link "operator" to some k8s docs.  Yeah, people should know this stuff but...  Just a link is not intrusive.

Author: Oh yes,I forgot about the markdown for this.I need to check.

> **Keptn's Lifecycle Scheduler** is a component of Keptn that allows users to schedule events and tasks to occur at specific times during the application lifecycle. The Lifecycle Scheduler can be used to trigger events such as deployment, testing, and remediation at specific times or intervals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Keptn's Lifecycle Scheduler** replaces the
[Kubernetes scheduler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/kube-scheduler/)
to allow users to schedule events and tasks to occur
at specific times during the application lifecycle.
The Lifecycle Scheduler can be used to trigger events such as deployment, testing, and remediation at specific times or intervals.
```

Author: Sure will do.

---
title: Lifecycle Toolkit Components
linktitle: KLT Components
description: Basic understanding of Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit Components
weight: 80
cascade:
---

### Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit Components

The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit consists of two main components:

> * Keptn Lifecycle Operator, splits into two separate operators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Keptn Lifecycle Operator, which splits into two separate operators
in Release 0.7.0 and later:
```
Since this is a big change, i like specifying that here.

Author: yes, I agree.

> ---

Reviewer 2: We should name this file `_index.md`, or is there a particular reason for this `KLTcomponents.md` name?

Author: No there is no reason I thought to name the file according to their content😅should I change this to `_index.md`?

Reviewer 2: so there are two ways of naming files in hugo - see https://gohugo.io/content-management/organization/

1. making a folder and using an `_index.md`
2. no folder and name it like the title or something similar like you did with `kltcomponents.md` 

currently we are mixing both of those, and we should use one of them. I am not sure if we do have a global rule, to always use directories (first approach) but imho it makes only sense, if you need to add images, or have subsections to this one.

As we do not have sub sections, and no assets or anything, you can also use the second approach - in my opinion. I am not sure what the rule for keptn is here. Maybe @StackScribe or @thisthat can shed some light :)

Author: For now, I renamed to `_index.md` file as all file follows this conevention.

Author: Also, need suggestion for the name here  @aepfli 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49230384/224909079-6ba4a497-5beb-454d-a8fb-46778d1f480a.png)

What will be better to put here?
- KLT components
- Keptn Lifecycle Components.

Reviewer 2: I would skip the `KLT` and call it components. We're in the KLT documentation that naming is redundant.

Furthermore, `Working` is not a good link title - `How it works?` might be better, or maybe this content would be suitable for the `Architecture` page anyways.

Author: ok I am adding `How it works?` and `components`.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49230384/224937427-65c9a788-b8bc-4679-bf1a-3b190cc36d05.png)
done.

title: Lifecycle Toolkit Components
linktitle: KLT Components
description: Basic understanding of Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit Components
weight: 80
cascade:
---

### Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit Components

The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit consists of two main components:

* Keptn Lifecycle Operator, splits into two separate operators:
  * Lifecycle-Operator
  * Metrics-Operator
* Keptn Lifecycle Scheduler

```mermaid
graph TD;
    KLTComponents-->Operators;
    KLTComponents-->Scheduler
   Operators-->Lifecycle-Operator
   Operators-->Metrics-Operator

style KLTComponents fill:#006bb8,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#fff
style Operators fill:#d8e6f4,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#006bb8
style Scheduler fill:#d8e6f4,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#006bb8
style Lifecycle-Operator fill:#d8e6f4,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#006bb8
style Metrics-Operator fill:#d8e6f4,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:px,color:#006bb8

```

**Keptn's Lifecycle Operator** is
a Kubernetes [operator](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/)
that automates the deployment and management

> of Keptn's Lifecycle Controller components in a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the Keptn Lifecycle Controller components in a Kubernetes cluster.
```

Author: oh ok mam.

The Keptn Lifecycle Operator contains several controllers for **Keptn CRDs**
and a **Mutating Webhook**.

Here's a brief overview:

**Keptn CRDs:** The Keptn Lifecycle Operator contains

> several controllers that are responsible for managing
> and reconciling different types of Keptn CRDs, some of them are
> Project Controller,Service Controller,Stage Controller,and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
several controllers that manage and reconcile different types of Keptn CRDs
such as the Project Controller, Service Controller, and Stage Controller.
```

> **Mutating Webhook:** It is used to automatically inject Keptn-specific labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Mutating Webhook:** Automatically injects Keptn labels
```
You also can't hyphenate "Keptn" with another term.  But, in this case, I think just calling them Keptn labels is enough.

Author: ok mam, will keep in mind.

and annotations into Kubernetes resources,
such as deployments and services.
These labels and annotations are used to enable Keptn's automation
and monitoring capabilities.

> **Keptn's Lifecycle Metrics Operator** is
> a component of the Keptn platform that is responsible for collecting, processing,
> and analyzing metrics data from a variety of sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Keptn's Lifecycle Metrics Operator** 
collects,  processes, and analyzes metrics data from a variety of sources.
```
In a comma-separated list, you need a space after each comma before the next word.

I also don't think you need to say that this is a component of Keptn, just say what it does.

> Once it has collected this data, it can be used to generate a variety of reports
> and dashboards that provide insights into the health and performance of the application
> and infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once collected, this data, can be used to generate a variety of reports
and dashboards that provide insights into the health and performance of the application and infrastructure.
```

**Keptn's Lifecycle Scheduler** replaces the
[Kubernetes scheduler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/kube-scheduler/)
to allow users to schedule events and tasks to occur
at specific times during the application lifecycle.

> The Lifecycle Scheduler can be used to trigger events such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lifecycle Scheduler can trigger events such as
```
